
# 1. Reflected XSS into HTML context with most tags and attributes blocked

This lab contains a reflected XSS vulnerability in the search functionality but uses a web application firewall (WAF) to protect against common XSS vectors.

To solve the lab, perform a cross-site scripting attack that bypasses the WAF and calls the print() function.

**Note:**
> - Upon trying a blocked tag <something> in entry point, we get error 404 with message tag is blocked. This indicate that there a WAF.
> - Since we do get response, try fuzz out a tag that is allowed.
> - **Notice** that unlike Burp/ZAP/..., cli tools like ffuf handle the wordlist different. The `space` in wordlist might not get encode.
> - When found a working tag, try it with a event/attribute: `/input?=<tag event=1>`.
> - We get message that some event and attribute also get blocked. --> Try fuzz out a working one. `/input?=<found-tag FUZZ-here=1>`
> - From here, combine what u found to craft a working payload.

# 2. Lab: Reflected XSS into HTML context with all tags blocked except custom ones

This lab blocks all HTML tags except custom ones.

To solve the lab, perform a cross-site scripting attack that injects a custom tag and automatically alerts `document.cookie`.

**Note:**
> - **`custom tags`** are user-defined labels or elements that you create to add functionality. Here, we can create a tag `<custom>, <random>, <asd>, ...` as wished.
> - Then we can add **attributes, events,...** to the tag.
> - When self test to deliver to victim, if `<iframe>` tag not possible, use `<script> location="payload-here" </script>`

