

## 1. The basic

Passwords are `hashed` when stored to protect against attackers. `Hashing` transforms input bytes into fixed-size output using functions like `MD5` and `SHA-256`.

For password `Soccer06!`:

```shell-session
bmdyy@htb:~$ echo -n Soccer06! | md5sum
40291c1d19ee11a7df8495c4cccefdfa  -

bmdyy@htb:~$ echo -n Soccer06! | sha256sum
a025dc6fabb09c2b8bfe23b5944635f9b68433ebd9a1a09453dd4fee00766d93  -
```

Hash functions work `one direction` - you cannot reverse the hash to get the original password. When attackers try to crack passwords from hashes, they use `rainbow tables`, `dictionary attacks`, or `brute-force attacks`.

### Rainbow tables 

**Rainbow tables** are pre-compiled maps of input/output values for hash functions, allowing quick password identification from hashes.

|Password|	MD5 Hash|
|-|-|
|123456|	e10adc3949ba59abbe56e057f20f883e|
|12345|	827ccb0eea8a706c4c34a16891f84e7b|
|...SNIP...|	...SNIP...|

To counter rainbow tables, `salting` is used. A `salt` is random bytes added to passwords before hashing. Salts should be unique per password. With salt `Th1sIsTh3S@lt_` prepended:

```shell-session
inferLeo@htb[/htb]$ echo -n Th1sIsTh3S@lt_Soccer06! | md5sum

90a10ba83c04e7996bc53373170b5474  -
```

Salts aren't secret - they're stored with hashes for authentication verification. Salting defeats rainbow tables because salt+password combinations aren't pre-mapped. Even a single-byte salt increases required rainbow table entries from 15 billion to 3.84 trillion (256x factor).

### Brute-force attack

**Brute-force attack**
A `brute-force` attack tries every possible combination of characters until finding the correct password. While time-consuming for long passwords, shorter passwords (<9 characters) are vulnerable even on consumer hardware. Brute-forcing is the only `100% effective` cracking technique given enough time, but is rarely used due to duration and is typically replaced by more efficient `mask attacks`.

|Brute-force attempt|	MD5 Hash|
|-|-|
|...SNIP...|	...SNIP...|
|Sxejd|	2cdc813ef26e6d20c854adb107279338|
|Sxeje|	7703349a1f943f9da6d1dfcda51f3b63|
|...SNIP...|	...SNIP...|

**Note:** Speed depends on hashing algorithm and hardware. Tools like `hashcat` can guess over `five million` MD5 passwords per second on a typical laptop, but only `ten thousand` per second for DCC2 hashes.

### Dictionary attack

A `dictionary` or `wordlist` attack is one of the most `efficient` password cracking techniques, ideal for time-constrained scenarios like penetration testing. Instead of trying all character combinations, it uses lists of statistically likely passwords. Popular wordlists include rockyou.txt and SecLists collections.

```
$ head --lines=20 /usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt 

123456
12345
123456789
password
iloveyou
princess
1234567
rockyou
12345678
abc123
...SNIP...
```














