

# HTTP/S

- Web transfer is the most common file transfer method since `HTTP`/`HTTPS` are typically allowed through firewalls. A major benefit is in-transit encryption. Nothing's worse than having a client's IDS detect a sensitive file transferred in plaintext during a penetration test and questioning why we sent passwords to our cloud server unencrypted.
- We have already discussed using the Python3 uploadserver module to set up a web server with upload capabilities, but we can also use Apache or Nginx.

## Nginx - Enabling PUT

A good alternative to `Apache` for file transfers is `Nginx` due to simpler configuration and fewer module-related security issues. When allowing `HTTP` uploads, ensure users cannot upload and execute web shells. `Apache` makes this risky since the `PHP` module executes anything ending in `PHP`, while configuring `Nginx` to use PHP is much more complex.

**Create a Directory to Handle Uploaded Files:**

```
[!bash!]$ sudo mkdir -p /var/www/uploads/SecretUploadDirectory
```

**Change the Owner to www-data:**

```
[!bash!]$ sudo chown -R www-data:www-data /var/www/uploads/SecretUploadDirectory
```

**Create Nginx Configuration File:**

- Create the Nginx configuration file by creating the file `/etc/nginx/sites-available/upload.conf` with the contents:

```
server {
    listen 9001;
    
    location /SecretUploadDirectory/ {
        root    /var/www/uploads;
        dav_methods PUT;
    }
}
```

**Symlink our Site to the sites-enabled Directory:**

```
[!bash!]$ sudo ln -s /etc/nginx/sites-available/upload.conf /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/
```

**Start Nginx:**

```
[!bash!]$ sudo systemctl restart nginx.service
```

- If we get any error messages, check `/var/log/nginx/error.log`.

**Verifying Errors:**

```
[!bash!]$ tail -2 /var/log/nginx/error.log

2020/11/17 16:11:56 [emerg] 5679#5679: bind() to 0.0.0.0:`80` failed (98: A`ddress already in use`)
2020/11/17 16:11:56 [emerg] 5679#5679: still could not bind()
```

```
[!bash!]$ ss -lnpt | grep 80

LISTEN 0      100          0.0.0.0:80        0.0.0.0:*    users:(("python",pid=`2811`,fd=3),("python",pid=2070,fd=3),("python",pid=1968,fd=3),("python",pid=1856,fd=3))
```

```
[!bash!]$ ps -ef | grep 2811

user65      2811    1856  0 16:05 ?        00:00:04 `python -m websockify 80 localhost:5901 -D`
root        6720    2226  0 16:14 pts/0    00:00:00 grep --color=auto 2811
```

- We see there is already a module listening on port 80. To get around this, we can remove the default Nginx configuration, which binds on port 80.

**Remove NginxDefault Configuration:**

```
[!bash!]$ sudo rm /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/default
```

- Now we can test uploading by using `cURL` to send a `PUT` request. In the below example, we will upload the `/etc/passwd` file to the server and call it users.txt

**Upload File Using cURL:**

```
[!bash!]$ curl -T /etc/passwd http://localhost:9001/SecretUploadDirectory/users.txt
[!bash!]$ sudo tail -1 /var/www/uploads/SecretUploadDirectory/users.txt 

user65:x:1000:1000:,,,:/home/user65:/bin/bash
```

- Once working, test that directory listing is disabled by navigating to `http://localhost/SecretUploadDirectory`. By default, `Apache` lists all files when hitting a directory without an index file (index.html). This is problematic for exfiltrating files since most are sensitive and should remain hidden. Thanks to `Nginx`'s minimal design, such features aren't enabled by default.











