

# Steps to exploit

Below are steps and what to consider when testing for File Upload Vulnerability

## 1. Validation

- The first thing to consider is `validation`. Usually, there will alway be a validation on what `type of file` can be uploaded.
- Take notice on if the validation is `client-side` or not (by look at the web's response when upload a test file). If it is, this can be bypassed with either with `inspect and delete code` or `Intercept tools` like **Burp**.

### 1.1 - Flawed file type validation

- It is heplful to use `intercept tools` (**Burp**) to view the `POST` request you make.
- By doing so, you can see certain `HEADER` (for example: `Content-Type: ...`)that `validate content-type` of your file.
- If there is such thing, alter its value into what suit your case.

## 2. Web Framework

- Try `Identify Web Framework`. (do `Fingerprinting`)
- The idea is to upload a `shell or reverse shell`. But to do that, we must know the programming language (php, ...) is used by the website to craft the corresponding shell.
- To identify programming language, we can `FUZZ the extension of index file`, or use tools like: `whatweb, Wappalyzer`.

## 3. (if no Filters) Vulnerability Identification and Upload Exploitation

- Assuming that we successfully uploaded a shell to the website. However, when we try to trigger it with stored url: `https://something/storage/shell.php?cmd=id`, nothing happen but a blank or error message. This is because the website might be `not configured to execute files or a certain files`.
- Therefor, we can try FUZZ what other files also get accepted by the website with `file extension lists`. But the shell would be something like this: `<?php echo "This should not be here";?>` (If the web run in PHP ofcause). With this, we will filter the `response` - whatever prompt the word is the vulnerable one.
- From here, you can use your custom shell or shell gen tools to exploit it.
- Shell or reverse shell - depend on your circumstances.
- Resources and tools you can use: `pentestmonkey`, or `Seclists` - PHP reverse shell, `msfvenom` - to gen a shell.

### 3.1 - Preventing file execution in user-accessible directories

- To defend against web shells that bypass upload filters, servers implement a second security layer: preventing script execution in user-accessible directories.
- See more about it in **`9.3, part 2.2`**

## 4. Blacklist Filters 

There are generally two common forms of validating a file extension on the back-end:
- Testing against a `blacklist` of types
- Testing against a `whitelist` of types

Furthermore, the validation may also check the `file type` or the `file content` for type matching by look at the file `metadata`.

The weakest form of validation amongst these is `testing the file extension against a blacklist of extension` to determine whether the upload request should be blocked. (see more in **`9.3 part 2.3`**)

- Since the website simply `BLOCK` certain file extensions in its list. Therefor, we can just `FUZZ out what extension get accepted`. (Lists can be obtained from: `Payloadallthething`, `Seclists`,...)

### 4.1 - Overriding the server configuration

see more in **`9.3 part 2.3.1`**

## 5. Whitelist Filters

A whitelist is generally more secure than a blacklist. The web server would `only allow` the `specified extensions`.

- We can try FUZZ it as in above to see `what get accepted`, and see `how the web response`. Base on the result, we might get some `clues to bypass` it.

### 5.1 - Bypass with Double Extensions and Reverse Double Extension

- If the code only tests whether the file name contains an `image extension`; a straightforward method of passing the regex test is through `Double Extensions`.
- For example, if the `.jpg` extension was allowed, we can add it in our uploaded file name and still end our filename with `.php` (e.g. `shell.jpg.php`), in which case we should be able to pass the whitelist test, while still uploading a PHP script that can execute PHP code.
- **Reverse Double Extension**: `shell.php.jpg`. This also can happens if website is misconfigured.
- Ofcause, we should also combine this 2 methods with FUZZ.
- However, this bypass method may not always work, as some web applications may use a strict regex pattern.

### 5.2 - Bypass with Character Injection

We can inject several characters before or after the final extension to cause the web application to misinterpret the filename and execute the uploaded file as a PHP script.

The following are some of the characters we may try injecting:
```
%20
%0a
%00
%0d0a
/
.\
.
…
:
```

- Each character has a specific use case that may trick the web application to misinterpret the file extension.
- For example, (`shell.php%00.jpg`) works with `PHP` servers with version `5.X or earlier`, as it causes the PHP web server to end the file name after the (`%00`), and store it as (`shell.php`), while still passing the whitelist.
- The same may be used with web applications hosted on a `Windows` server by injecting a colon (`:`) before the allowed file extension (e.g. `shell.aspx:.jpg`), which should also write the file as (`shell.aspx`).
- Similarly, each of the other characters has a use case that may allow us to upload a PHP script while bypassing the type validation test.

We can write a small bash script that generates all permutations of the file name, where the above characters would be injected before and after both the `PHP` and `JPG` extensions, as follows:

```bash
for char in '%20' '%0a' '%00' '%0d0a' '/' '.\\' '.' '…' ':'; do
    for ext in '.php' '.phps'; do
        echo "shell$char$ext.jpg" >> wordlist.txt
        echo "shell$ext$char.jpg" >> wordlist.txt
        echo "shell.jpg$char$ext" >> wordlist.txt
        echo "shell.jpg$ext$char" >> wordlist.txt
    done
done
```

**Note:** 
> - you can alter the '.php' '.phps' and `.jpg` depend on your circumstances.
> - Also, use a normal picture file (`something.jpg`), then obfuscate it name and ext as above. Then, try access it on the website by using different part of its new gen name, take note of on `what name the picture being rendered`. The idea is to see how the website interact with those `special chars` in file name. 
> - (see more in **`9.3 part 2.3.2 - Obfuscating file extensions`**)


## 6. Type Filters

There are two common methods for validating the file content: `Content-Type Header` or `File Content`. Let's see how we can identify each filter and how to bypass both of them.

### 3.1 - Content-Type

- **Seclists/discovery/web-content/web-all-content-types.txt**.
- Depend on your case, find the corresponding web content type. For example, if your target is a image upload case, you can copy a part from the above list that will suit you.
- ` cat web-all-content-types.txt | grep 'image/' > image-content-types.txt`
- Now try fuzz with the new list.
- (see more in `9.9 part 2.1 - Flawed file type validation`)

### 3.2 - MIME-Type

The second and more common type of file content validation is testing the uploaded file's MIME-Type. `Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions` (MIME) is an internet standard that determines the type of a file through its general format and bytes structure.

This is usually done by inspecting the first few bytes of the file's content, which contain the `File Signature` or `Magic Bytes`. 
- For example, if a file starts with (`GIF87a` or `GIF89a`), this indicates that it is a `GIF image`, while a file starting with plaintext is usually considered a `Text` file.
- If we change the first bytes of any file to the GIF magic bytes, its MIME type would be changed to a GIF image, regardless of its remaining content or extension.
- (see more in `9.3 part 2.4 - Flawed validation of the file's contents`)
- we can try using an **Allowed MIME type with a disallowed Content-Type, an Allowed MIME/Content-Type with a disallowed extension, or a Disallowed MIME/Content-Type with an allowed extension, and so on**. 
 















































