# 1. The Basics

Server-Side Includes (SSI) is a web technology for creating dynamic HTML content, supported by servers like **Apache** and **IIS**. While SSI usage is often indicated by extensions like `.shtml`, `.shtm`, and `.stm`, servers can be configured to support SSI in any file extension, making file extensions unreliable indicators of SSI usage.

SSI utilizes `directives` to add dynamically generated content to a static HTML page. These directives consist of the following components:
- `name`: the directive's name
- `parameter name`: one or more parameters
- `value`: one or more parameter values

An SSI directive has the following syntax: `<!--#name param1="value1" param2="value" -->`

For instance, the following are some common SSI directives:

| SSI directives | Description | Syntax |
|-|-|-|
|printenv|This directive prints environment variables. It does not take any variables.|`<!--#printenv -->`|
|config|This directive changes the SSI configuration by specifying corresponding parameters. For instance, it can be used to change the error message using the `errmsg` parameter:| `<!--#config errmsg="Error!" -->`
|echo|This directive prints the value of any variable given in the `var` parameter. Multiple variables can be printed by specifying multiple var parameters. For instance, the following variables are supported:<br> - `DOCUMENT_NAME`: the current file's name<br> - `DOCUMENT_URI`: the current file's URI<br> - `LAST_MODIFIED`: timestamp of the last modification of the current file<br> - `DATE_LOCAL`: local server time|`<!--#echo var="DOCUMENT_NAME" var="DATE_LOCAL" -->`|
|exec|This directive executes the command given in the `cmd` parameter:|`<!--#exec cmd="whoami" -->`|
|include|This directive includes the file specified in the `virtual` parameter. It only allows for the inclusion of files in the web root directory.|`<!--#include virtual="index.html" -->`|

## SSI Injection

SSI injection happens when attackers inject SSI directives into files served by the web server, causing malicious code execution. This can occur through vulnerable file uploads that allow attackers to place files with SSI directives in the web root, or when web applications write user input directly to files in the web root directory.

# 2. Exploiting SSI Injection

**Example:** 
> - When visit a website, we are greeted by a simple form asking for our name.
> - If we enter our name, we are redirected to `/page.shtml`, which displays some general information.
> - We can guess that the page supports SSI based on the file extension.
> - If our username is inserted into the page without prior sanitization, it might be vulnerable to SSI injection.
> - Let us confirm this by providing a username of `<!--#printenv -->`.
> - The directive is executed, and the environment variables are printed. Thus, we have successfully confirmed an SSI injection vulnerability.
> - Let us confirm that we can execute arbitrary commands using the exec directive by providing the following username: `<!--#exec cmd="id" -->`.
> - If the server successfully execut our injected command, this will enables us to take over the web server fully.













































